before modern telescopes
humans could only imagine what the
surface of the sun
and the planets look like now advanced
technology
has made it possible to get in close and
take images of the sun
and the planets deep in our solar system
now get ready to see the solar system as
you've never seen it before
and see images that were so good they
shocked astronomers
burning with the energy of a trillion
nuclear bombs per second
the sun is the largest body in our solar
system
accounting for 99.86 percent of the
total mass
one of the most dramatic images of the
sun was captured by the solar dynamics
observatory
on august the 31st 2012 when a long
filament of solar material that had been
hovering in the sun's atmosphere
erupted into outer space this beautiful
but deadly coronal mass ejection
cme traveled at over 900 miles per
second
the planet closest to the sun orbiting
at an average distance of 36 million
miles
mercury has been studied by many
spacecraft throughout the years
but nasa's messenger spacecraft was the
first to orbit the planet
images showed the surface covered in
craters in all sizes
and massive asteroid impact sites like
the van ick crater which is 168 miles in
diameter
and the caloris basin which is 960 miles
in diameter
with mountains at the outer rim 1.2
miles high
these are images with spectral surface
measurements that were taken
on april the 29th 2015. messenger
snapped more than 200 000 images of
mercury before ending its mission in
with an intentional crash into the
planet's surface
the probe's demise was inevitable as
messenger had been orbiting mercury
since march 2011
and had run out of fuel right before
impact it sent back its final image
the highest resolution photo of mercury
ever captured
you'd think that mercury would be the
hottest planet because it's the closest
to the sun
but our next planet is actually the
hottest in the solar system
the second planet from the sun and also
earth's closest neighboring planet
venus has a thick atmosphere made up
mostly of carbon dioxide
sulfur dioxide and nitrogen gas which
traps the heat of the sun
making it a hellish world venera 13 was
a probe built in the soviet union for
the venera program
to explore venus it was the first lander
to transmit color images from the
surface of venus
venus is a hot world with surface
temperatures as high as 880 degrees
fahrenheit
the probe was designed to only last 30
minutes
but it must have been built like a tank
because it continued to transmit data
and images for more than two hours after
landing on march the 1st
1982 nasa then sent the magalan
spacecraft to venus in 1990 to image and
map
the entire surface it sent back images
of the planet's surface
showing evidence of volcanism tectonic
plate movement
turbulent surface winds and miles of
lava channels
including one measuring 5 550 miles long
another incredible image of the volcano
mat mons that rises
three miles once magellan was finished
mapping the entire surface
it also ended its mission and crashed
into the fiery planet
the third rock from the sun the earth is
very unique
and the only place known to have life in
the solar system
there have been lots of amazing images
taken of the planet we live on
but modern satellite photos are probably
the most breathtaking
like this image from nasa of the earth
as it looks right now
this amazing true color image was taken
by nasa's
moderate resolution imaging
spectroradiometer from 22
000 miles above the earth and shows
north and south america as they appear
from orbit the moon also making a guest
appearance in the background
and on december the 14th 2020 nasa
captured a total solar eclipse with the
goes
16. that's quite amazing but here is
something you may not have seen
in march 2011 a russian satellite named
electro
l captured incredibly detailed images of
the earth that appear to rival nasa
images
many claimed that they are more accurate
and show different things
but nasa say they're not accurate we're
not sure
but which images do you think are the
best and by the way
remember the messenger spacecraft it
snapped a photo of the earth and of the
moon
and sent as a postcard before speeding
towards mercury
mars has always been of great interest
to humans
the fourth planet from the sun the red
martian planet has been studied heavily
the viking orbiter 1 took stunning
snapshots of mars in 1979
like this photo of the valles marineris
and the viking 2 orbiter snapped an
image showing the southern polar plains
and polar ice cap in 2013 the mars
european space agency's
mars express took highly detailed images
of hebes khasma
the northernmost part of valles
marineris as seen in this movie created
from the images
but since then four rovers have already
been on the planet's surface
studying and snapping photos the images
from the mars
curiosity rover including a selfie were
the most incredible images from the
surface of an
alien world this is a 1.8 billion
paranamic view made up of over 1200
images of mars
as seen by curiosity which is still
operational
the largest planet in our solar system
the gas giant
jupiter has the most unique look of all
the planets with its giant great red
spot
a storm on the planet that's been raging
for 350 years
and is so large it could swallow the
earth whole
on july 10 2017 the juno spacecraft
flew just 5 600 miles above the great
red spot
and nabbed the closest image of the
massive storm ever taken
this image a bit farther away is a
little bit truer in color to what we
would see if we were orbiting jupiter
but juno also captured unbelievable
images of polar regions
which cannot be seen from earth and what
surprised astronomers was that jupiter's
north pole has
eight storms swirling at its center and
they're laid out in a precise
geometric pattern the storms appearing
as stable fixtures in jupiter's
atmosphere
and not normal weather but more
incredible photos would come
and on november 13 2018 a new image from
juno was created using data from the
juno cam
imager that's nothing short of
breathtaking and on june 27
2019 the hubble telescope captured the
planet's trademark
great red spot which researchers say is
shrinking
we got an awesome video coming up on
jupiter so make sure not to miss it
as the number one contender for the most
beautiful celestial body in the solar
system
saturn is hard to beat with its iconic
rings
and probably the best images of saturn
to date come from the cassini higgins
spacecraft
on october 21st 2002 the spacecraft was
177 million miles away from saturn when
it snapped
this photo and on march the 27th 2004
as it got closer took this natural color
image as it neared its arrival into
saturn's orbit
now here's a mind-blowing image of
saturn you may never have seen before
this is saturn backlit by the sun and
with that added light
cassini was able to image the ring
system in a way not
possible from earth and the result is
stunning
but in 2004 the hubble telescope was
also in on the action
and snapped an amazing photo of an aura
in 2016 the cassini spacecraft sent back
images of saturn's northern hemisphere
what scientists were surprised to see
was a hexagonal vortex storms
they've been studied but no one's sure
how this forms
on september 15 2017 the spacecraft made
its final approach towards the gas giant
and before sending this final image
burned up in saturn's atmosphere
like a meteor known as the sideways
planet because it rotates on its side
the seventh planet from the sun one of
the best images taken
voyager 2 made a flyby of the planet in
and this image was taken using three
color filters
and on july the 11th and 12th 2004
a composite image of uranus obtained by
the keck telescope was published showing
the icy cold world
and its rings those bright spots that
you see on the surface of the planet are
auras
in november of 2011 the hubble telescope
snapped an awesome image of uranus and a
colorized photo
shows an icy blue sphere with red rings
and in 2017 the hubble telescope
captured auras again
on uranus
neptune is the eighth planet in our
solar system
and the farthest away from the sun the
only spacecraft that's being close to
neptune is voyager 2.
one image taken by the spacecraft shows
a giant storm ranging on the surface of
the planet
neptune's great dark spot before voyager
2 would complete its mission
and head towards interstellar space it
made a close approach
and snapped this image showing bright
cloud streaks in neptune's atmosphere
the hubble telescope has taken a recent
image of neptune and in december 2020
snapped this image with the great dark
spot
because it's so far away from us the
best images we have of neptune from
earth
so far was taken by the european
southern observatory's
very large telescope using a special
narrow field adaptive
optics mode of the multi-unit
spectroscopic explorer instrument
many argue whether pluto is a planet or
not but you're here to see some photos
one of the clearest images of pluto that
you'll ever see was taken by the long
range reconnaissance imager
which is aboard nasa's new horizons
spacecraft on july the 13th
2015 but it wasn't done yet and on the
next day
this image was put together by combining
blue red and
infrared images taken by the spacecraft
the new horizon spacecraft continued to
take crystal clear images of the planet
pluto also has a moon called charon as
seen in this composite
of enhanced color images and this image
is the most striking
showing mountains across an icy plain
humanity has achieved great results
getting new images from planets in our
solar system
and making incredible discoveries we're
still too far away to get close images
of proxima centrai
the next planetary system to ours and
current spacecraft headed in that
direction
will take thousands of years to get
there but there are plans to create a
wafer thin
nano probe called breakthrough star shot
that has
thin sails to capture energy from a
powerful earth-based laser
this would accelerate the probe at 134
million miles per hour
meaning the tiny probes could reach
proxima centauri in 20-25 years
just think of the images it could take
if that happens sometime soon
you'll see it here
[Music]
our friends over at channel perception
just released a cool new video
about nasa's plan to stop an asteroid
we thought it was really awesome
so you should go check it out we think
you'll enjoy it
[Music]